Version 2.6.0 (#150)
sider/goodcheck: docusaurus/website/versioned_docs/version-2.6.0/configuration.md

```

It tries to tokenize the input and generates a regexp which matches a sequence of tokens.
The tokenization is heuristic and may not work well for your programming language.
In that case, try using *regexp pattern*.

The generated regexp of `<blink` is `<\s*blink\b/m`.
It matches with `<blink />` and `< BLINK>`, but does not match with `https://www.chromium.org/blink`.

It accepts one optional attribute `case_sensitive`.
The default value of `case_sensitive` is `true`.
Note that the generated regexp is in multiline mode.

Token patterns can have an optional `where` attribute and *variable bindings*.

```yaml
pattern:
  - token: bgcolor=${color:string}
    where:
      color: true
```

The variable binding consists of *variable name* and *variable type*, where `color` and `string` in the example above respectively. You have to add a key of the *variable name* in `where` attribute.

We have 8 built-in patterns:

* `string`
* `int`
* `float`
* `number`
* `url`
* `email`
* `word`
* `identifier`

You can find the exact definitions of the types in the definition of `Goodcheck::Pattern::Token` (`@@TYPES`).

You can omit the type of variable binding.

```yaml
pattern:

>   - token: margin-left: ${size}px;

Reviewer: I tried this pattern and got this error.

```
Unexpected error happens while loading YAML file: #<Psych::SyntaxError: (goodcheck.yml): mapping values are not allowed in this context at line 51 column 27>
```
How about quoting the value like this?

```suggestion
  - token: "margin-left: ${size}px;"
```

Author: Good catch! I'll fix `docusaurus/docs/configuration.md`.
`docusaurus/website/versioned_docs/version-2.6.0/configuration.md` is auto-generated.

    where:
      size: true
  - token: backgroundColor={${color}}
    where:
      color: true
```

In this case, the following character will be used to detect the range of binding. In the first example above, the `px` will be used as the marker for the end of `size` binding.

If parens or brackets are surrounding the variable, Goodcheck tries to match with nested ones in the variable. It expands five levels of nesting. See the example of matches with the second `backgroundColor` pattern:

- `backgroundColor={color}` Matches (`color=="color"`)
- `backgroundColor={{ red: red(), green: green(), blue: green()-1 }}` Matches (`color=="{ red: red(), green: green(), blue: green()-1 }"`)
- `backgroundColor={ {{{{{{}}}}}} }` Matches (`color==" {{{{{{}}}}}"`)

## *glob*

A *glob* can be a string, or a hash.

```yaml
glob:
  pattern: "legacy/**/*.rb"
  encoding: EUC-JP
  exclude: ["**/test/**", "**/spec/**"]
```

> The hash can have an optional `encoding` attribute.

Reviewer: What is "hash"?

Author: "hash" is a collection with key-value pairs. In Ruby, the `Hash` class.
Perhaps, since Goodcheck is written in Ruby, I think "hash" may be used here (but I'm not sure).

Reviewer: Oh, I see :bulb:

## A rule without `pattern`

You can define a rule without `pattern`.
The rule emits an issue on each file specified with `glob`.
You cannot omit `glob` from a rule definition without `pattern`.

```yaml
rules:
  - id: without_pattern
    message: |
      Read the operation manual for DB migration: https://example.com/guides/123
    glob: db/schema.rb
```

The output will be something like:

```
$ goodcheck check
db/schema.rb:-:# This file is auto-generated from the current state of the database. Instead: Read the operation manual for DB migration: https://example.com/guides/123
```

## Triggers

Version 2.0.0 introduces a new abstraction to define patterns, trigger.
You can continue using `pattern`s in `rule`, but using `trigger` allows more flexible pattern definition and more precise testing.

```
rules:
  - id: trigger
    message: Using trigger
    trigger:
      - pattern: <blink
        glob: "**/*.html"
        fail:
          - <blink></blink>
      - not:
          pattern:
            token: <meta charset="UTF-8">
            case_sensitive: false
        glob: "**/*.html"
        pass: |
          <html>
            <meta charset="utf-8"></meta>
          </html>
```

> You can continue existing `pattern` definitions, but using `goodcheck test` against `pattern`s with `glob` does not work.

Reviewer: How about this?

```suggestion
You can keep `pattern` definitions, but using `goodcheck test` against `pattern`s with `glob` does not work.
```

Author: Looks good. I'll update it.
